DOCSP-30349: server selection errors (#548)
mongodb/docs-java: source/connection-troubleshooting.txt

maintains a connection to a MongoDB instance. For more information about these
parameters, see :ref:`Connection Pool Settings <mcs-connectionpool-settings>`.

.. _java-server-selection-errors:

> Server Selection Errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server Selection Timeout Exceptions
```

-----------------------

> MongoDB might not be able to complete a request even when some servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your application might not be able to complete a request even when some servers
```

are available, causing the driver to return a server selection error.
The following list describes some situations in which you
might encounter a server selection error:

> - You use tag sets in a read preference specification when no server

Reviewer: This seems more like an application bug.  It's more likely that no servers with those tags are reachable from the application at this time, either due to a network error or database server maintenance.

Author: Removed this list

  with those tags exists.
- You write to a replica set when the primary node is unavailable.

> This error is of type ``MongoTimeoutException``. The following code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This exception is of type ``MongoTimeoutException``. The following
```

Reviewer: Because it's not code, it's the string representation of the exception that is likely to appear in your log file

shows a sample of the exception that occurs if you attempt to send a

> request to a replica set without a primary:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
request to a replica set in which the primary is not reachable:
```

.. code-block:: none

>    com.mongodb.MongoTimeoutException: Timed out after 30000 ms while

Reviewer: The actual message looks a little different:

```
        com.mongodb.MongoTimeoutException:
        Timed out while waiting for a server that matches ReadPreferenceServerSelector{readPreference=primary}.
        Client view of cluster state is
        {type=REPLICA_SET,
         servers=[
          {address=localhost:27017, type=UNKNOWN, state=CONNECTING, exception={com.mongodb.MongoSocketOpenException: Exception opening socket}, caused by {java.net.ConnectException: Connection refused}},
          {address=localhost:27018, type=UNKNOWN, state=CONNECTING, exception={com.mongodb.MongoSocketOpenException: Exception opening socket}, caused by {java.net.ConnectException: Connection refused}},
          {address=localhost:27019, type=REPLICA_SET_SECONDARY, roundTripTime=15.0 ms, state=CONNECTED}
         ]
```

Can you update?

Reviewer: Might also want to point out that the exception can be useful for troubleshooting connection issues.

   waiting for a server that matches ReadPreferenceServerSelector{readPreference=primary}.

   Client view of cluster state is {type=REPLICA_SET, servers=[
     {address=node01:27017, type=UNKNOWN, state=DISCONNECTED},
     {address=node02:27017, type=REPLICA_SET_SECONDARY, roundTripTime=..., state=CONNECTED},
     {address=node03:27017, type=REPLICA_SET_SECONDARY, roundTripTime=..., state=CONNECTED}
   ];

The error includes a view of the cluster state that describes the
connection state of each node. In the preceding error, the only
connected servers are secondary nodes, ``node02`` and ``node03``. Thus,

> the request times out as MongoDB is unable to select a server that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the request times out as the driver is unable to select a server that
```

> satisfies the read preference of ``primary``. In this situation, reads

Reviewer: I'm not sure how useful this advice is, as most applications need the primary to be available in order to insert/update/delete.

> the request timed out as MongoDB was unable to select a server that
> satisfied the read preference of ``primary``. In this situation, reads

Reviewer 2: S: I think this sentence still makes sense if you change to present tense:

```suggestion
the request times out as MongoDB is unable to select a server that
satisfies the read preference of ``primary``. In this situation, reads
```
